All right, let's go on node server.
This is gonna be outside of source.
So here in the root directory, right,
a server.js We are gonna be
doing this in the E6 modules which can be
kind of a pain with node but it is fine.
Import express from express.
Import fs from fs.
Import path from path.
Bear with me there's a decent
amount of typing here.
Import fileurlToPath to path from url,
and import renderApp from source slash,
sorry, we actually need
./dist/server/serverApp.js.
Now, this doesn't exist yet,
right, we need to build it.
Before we run the server,
we have to run npm run build : server and
then we can run npm run start, but
we can't import the jsx file directly,
it has to be built.
Okay, const dirname,
because we are in ESM modules with
node dirname doesn't exist,
which is a constant annoyance to me.
So we're gonna say past
der name fileTourlPath,
import metadata.url.
This is a very weird thing, but
basically if you're used to writing node,
this is how you generate
what was .__dirname before.
If this is unfamiliar with you,
just know that this dirname is now
whatever directory we're in, right?
So it's gonna be, yeah, whatever
directory in our project that we're in
Const PORT, this is what
the port we're gonna listen in.
Either process.env.PORT, this is just
a convention for cloud computing.
So if something passes in a PORT,
we'll use that for our PORT,
otherwise we'll use PORT 3001 by default.
const html=fs.readFileSync.
Path.resolve, dirname
and ./dist/client
/index.html.toString.
So what this is gonna do is our project
is going to build out an HTML file.
We're gonna go read that HTML file because
we need all the paths in there, right?
We need Where the CSS is,
where the JavaScript is cuz they have
like all these hashes attached to them.
And so we don't know what they are in
advance, so we have to do this part to
go get the proper paths for
all those different things.
In other words,
we can't just use the source file,
because it's not gonna be clientApp.jsx at
the end, it's gonna be some hashed named
JavaScript, Okay,
I'm gonna split it into two
parts cuz when a user makes a request
I'm gonna give them the head first.
So looking at my index.html again.
When a user loads my page, immediately we
can flush out to them all of this, right?
Which is good because then they
can start loading all the CSS.
And spoiler alert, they actually move
the JavaScript up here as well for you.
So they can start loading all
the JavaScript, which is great, right?
So while they're parsing all this,
they're loading all this stuff.
And then we can be running all of our
server side rendering in the background.
So multiple things are happening at once.
So we're giving them the best
experience that we possibly can.
So that's why I'm spreading it.
I'm just gonna split it into parts.
The first part, this part and
the second part, this part.
So I can split it on what?
Not rendered, right?
So I'm gonna just
literally split it on that.
Html.split, Not rendered.
Now, typically, I would imagine most
people would probably do something like,
That's probably a more robust way
of doing it, but I'm lazy and
I'm not gonna do that.
I'm just gonna do not render
cuz it's already there.
Okay, so that's parts.
Now let's make a really basic expressApp.
If this is not familiar to you,
it's totally fine,
this is not an Express course.
App.use, /assets,
express.static, (path.resolve).
This is just serving all the static
assets that we need to do,
dirname./dist/client/assets.
This will serve all of our images,
our CSS or JavaScript, all that stuff.
Did I import express there?
I didn't write, yeah, sorry,
that's app=express or
the other way around, Okay,
And then here's the magic,
what you've been waiting for, app.use.
We're basically saying on
anything that's not served by
a static asset, let react handle,okay?
Request and response.
So what did I say?
The very first thing is we're just gonna
flush them the header, res.writeparts0.
Immediately flush them
everything that's in the head.
Then const stream = renderApp,
Again, this is the app that we
got here from dist serverApp.js.
We're gonna give it req.url, And
this object of onShellReady,
Stream.pipe res,
Okay, onShellError,
Do error handling here.
This would be,
Log it out to your error service,
log it out to your, I don't know,
whatever logging service you're using.
I'm not gonna do anything here because
we're probably taking too long on
this anyway.
So anyway, that's what
onShellError you would do there.
And then all onShellready,
this is basically everything has happened,
so we''re done.
So this is last thing to write,
res.write parts[1].
So this basically mean
everything is been out,
cuz remember React is gonna
give it to incrementally.
So it gonna give you one piece, and
another, and another piece, and
another piece.
onAllReady is basically all right
everything is done now, right, so
we're good to go.
We can write the tail of it and then
we can close the request with res.end.
And then on error like an on an actual
error, We can console, log that out.
Okay, so that's all of that.
Lastly thing,
we'll say is console.log, Listening on
http://localhost:, PORT.
I like to do this so then I can command
click in my vs code terminal and
it'll take me directly there.
And app.listen (PORT).
Okay, so stream.pipe.
This is the important thing here, stream
we're getting back from a
renderToPipeableStream which is
a known datatype streams.
When we put this together basically
saying, the response object and
the React stream are being
connected to each other so
that whatever is coming out of React
is going straight to the user.
That is exactly what
this does right there.
If you have more questions about stream
datatypes, I'm pretty sure Scott's course
has got to talk about it, so
watch Scott's course on Node.js.
There is one thing that you might consider
doing if SEO is really important to you,
which I mentioned to many of you it is,
rendering things to stream can be
a problem because to Google,
it looks like you're slow.
Cuz it's worried about, as a crawler,
getting everything all at once.
So what you might do here is,
if it is the crawler, do nothing here.
And then onAllReady, which basically
means everything is already,
you would say something like,
if it is the crawler,
Then you would do this here.
Cuz once you have the,
whole thing here on, onAllReady,
this would just dump everything all at
once cuz everything would be ready, right?
So it'll maintain that back pressure and
then you can just dump it out all at once.
General gist of how you would handle that.
Okay, so
let's make sure I'm not out of my mind.
That's always a possibility npm run.
You wanna run buildclient.
You can see here I got a bunch
of stuff output there.
I'm gonna do npm run build-server.
Got a bunch of stuff coming out here for
the server assets, cool.
And now I can say npm run start, and
I have a server running on 3001.
Might have an error, no.
There we go.
I don't know what's going on there.
So, one of my favorite things to do here
is to look at the page source cuz that'll
tell you what it's getting on first load.
You can see now it's getting a bunch
of this stuff on first page load,
like all of the various different animals
and the select and everything like that.
But notice on the first load we're
getting no pets found, right?
That makes sense it's not doing
any Ajax on our server, right,
it's just gonna render
out the very first thing.
So if I refresh here, Notice that
we get no pets found immediately.
There's no loading once it's there, right?
We're getting an immediately
loaded out the first set of HTML.
So this is what I was talking about.
You're gonna get that first date
loaded immediately for that user, and
then it's goinna start making
all the AJAX calls, right?
Then it's gonna start loading
all that kind of stuff.
It's make sense.
It's a lot of math like machinery to plug
together, but it's pretty cool, I think.
It's always really hard to tell because
we're doing it all local development,
right, and so there's no round trip,
our little round trip is just
electrons in our laptop, right?
But this can make a big difference when if
someone's coming from India to US East,
right, that can make a big difference.
>> Is there a way that
you can simulate that?
>> Yeah, I mean,
>> Your servers, Docker containers.
>> Certainly you can do that.
You can certainly slow it down that way.
The easiest way always is if
I go to the Network here,
you can always choose throttling here and
you can put yourself on,
I'm on Firefox, again.
But you can put yourself on good three or
a regular 3G, right, and I refresh.
Now Firefox is gonna make it seem
like everything's going a lot slower.
S o I use that quite a bit.
And if you don't use it,
you should look at your app on
on various different speeds.
You should also look at your
analytics to see what devices and
what speeds people
are accessing your computer on.
So then you really know who to target.